What is the minimum I need for the basic gameplay loop?

explored civilized area -> interact with people -> receive info -> investigate -> find artifacts + history
-> get quests -> do quests -> get more powerful

- D&D / BG / TTRPG bare-bones mechanics
  - ✓ Attributes
    - ✓ STR - Mellee damage
    - ✓ DEX - Dodge chance, AP / movement
    - ✓ CON - Health
    - INT - ???
    - WIS - ???
  - ✓ XP/Levels
    - ✓ Attribute increase
- Equipment
  - Armors
    - Heavy - 3 tiers
    - Light - 3 tiers
  - ✓ Weapons
    - ✓ Slashing - 3 tiers
    - ✓ Bashing - 3 tiers
    - ✓ Piercing - 3 tiers
  - Consumables
    - Health potion
- ✓ Other mechanics
  - ✓ Resting at cities to recover health
- ✓ World interaction
  - ✓ Artifacts
    - ✓ More powerful versions of weapons generated through History
    - ✓ Ways to obtain those artifacts
  - ✓ People
    - ✓ Interacting with people to get information about other people, artifacts, etc
- Organic Questing
  - People have wants, problems, and riches. Do one in exchange for the other (make this more "mechanified")
  - How to make quests?
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w1mz-TrauFM
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MxeJh2Asigg&t=316s


# Decisions
## Worldmap navigation vs local navigation?
**Worldmap - Pros**
- Quicker gameplay
- Less repeated walking
**Worldmap - Cons
- Feels weird, like you're skipping content
- Too easy to jump from quest to quest

**Idea** - Local navigation, but you have an option of "travel". Is not quite fast travel. You can only "travel" while in cities or in a road, and can only travel to other cities/roads. Each tile you move, there's a random chance for events. For leaving the road, you must do it locally.

The map must be revealed.

# Other things that can happend to a artifact

- Someone grave-robbed an artifact from a grave
- Someone fround an item lost in the wilderness
- Some thief stole an item from someone
- If wielder dies in town, chance of being buried with the item or someone inheriting
- If wielder dies outside of home, is dropped on the random tile

# Interesting things in history
- A buried body is found. It's covered in tattoos and has a golden tongue. Who is this?
- Crusader Kings II has nice government sim

## idea - History simulation of Technology

Start with no tech, chance of someone/some faction learning a tech in a tech tree, that gives buffs. Chance to exchange techs on trades.

## idea - Legends simulation

- Some random events that can happen, such as:
  - Survived a great battle
  - Slain a great beast
  - Slept with the whole town
  - Add titles based on feats
  - Generate artifacts based on feats

## idea - Trait simulation

- People can have personality traits that affect chances, such as:
  - Violent - Increase chance of starting conflict

## inspect people

use a perception-like skill to see information about them

## caravans

caravans are group of people that move between places.

want to fund a settlement? you have to move there.
want to attack an enemy? you have to move there.

## city improvements

settlements always grow too big, given time.

having to collect say, gold, in order to build infrastructure (granaries, aqueducts, etc) to support bigger population will make only certain tiles thrive.

## settlement events

plagues, droughts, etc

## Better elevation generation

Nice procedural generator: http://procgenesis.com/WorldGen/worldgen.html
Erosion methods: https://github.com/dandrino/terrain-erosion-3-ways
Better noise https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsJHzBTPG0Y

- ✓ Render elevation in word view
  - ✓ Shadows on basic view
  - ✓ Explicit elevation view
- ✓ Plate tectonics simulation
- Slope
- Precipitation
- Erosion
- Volcanic activity

## feat - Break into more tasks

- Player sprite
- Human sprite
- Spider sprite
- Leshen sprite
- Fiend sprite

- Tile variations

- Simple click for most probable action
  - Friendly - Talk
  - Enemy - Attack
  - Bed - Sleep
- Right-click for all options
- Better character dialog
- Better codex dialog
- Better interaction dialog